---
title: "UNWTO Economies Tourism GDP proportion metadata"
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 72
---

SDG indicator metadata (Harmonized metadata template - format version
1.1) 0. Indicator information (SDG_INDICATOR_INFO) 0.a. Goal (SDG_GOAL)
Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth,
full and productive employment and decent work for all

0.b. Target (SDG_TARGET) Target 8.9: By 2030, devise and implement
policies to promote sustainable tourism that creates jobs and promotes
local culture and products

0.c. Indicator (SDG_INDICATOR) Indicator 8.9.1: Tourism direct GDP as a
proportion of total GDP and in growth rate

0.d. Series (SDG_SERIES_DESCR) ST_GDP_ZS - Tourism direct GDP as a
proportion of total GDP [8.9.1]

0.e. Metadata update (META_LAST_UPDATE) 2023-12-15

0.f. Related indicators (SDG_RELATED_INDICATORS) Target 14.7: By 2030,
increase the economic benefits to small island developing States and
least developed countries from the sustainable use of marine resources,
including through sustainable management of fisheries, aquaculture and
tourism. Target 12.b: Develop and implement tools to monitor sustainable
development impacts for sustainable tourism that creates jobs and
promotes local culture and products Indicator 12.b.1 Implementation of
standard accounting tools to monitor the economic and environmental
aspects of tourism sustainability

0.g. International organisations(s) responsible for global monitoring
(SDG_CUSTODIAN_AGENCIES) World Tourism Organization (UN Tourism)

1.  Data reporter (CONTACT) 1.a. Organisation (CONTACT_ORGANISATION)
    World Tourism Organization (UN Tourism)

2.  Definition, concepts, and classifications (IND_DEF_CON_CLASS) 2.a.
    Definition and concepts (STAT_CONC_DEF) Definition: Tourism Direct
    GDP (TDGDP) is defined as the sum of the part of gross value added
    (at basic prices) generated by all industries in response to
    internal tourism consumption plus the amount of net taxes on
    products and imports included within the value of this expenditure
    at purchasers‚Äô prices. The indicator relies on the Tourism Satellite
    Account: Recommended Methodological Framework 2008, an international
    Last updated: 2023-12-15 standard adopted by the UN Statistical
    Commission and led by UN Tourism, Organisation for Economic
    Cooperation and Development (OECD) and EUROSTAT. Concepts: Tourism
    direct gross value added (TDGVA) is the part of gross value added
    generated by tourism industries and other industries of the economy
    that directly serve visitors in response to internal tourism
    consumption. Gross Domestic Product (GDP): It is the main measure of
    national output, representing the total value of all final goods and
    services within the System of National Accounts (SNA) production
    boundary produced in a particular economy (that is, the dollar value
    of all goods and services within the SNA production boundary
    produced within a country‚Äôs borders in a given year). According to
    the SNA, ‚ÄúGDP is the sum of gross value added of all resident
    producer units plus that part (possibly the total) of taxes on
    products, less subsidies on products, that is not included in the
    valuation of output. GDP is also equal to the sum of the final uses
    of goods and services (all uses except intermediate consumption)
    measured at purchasers‚Äô prices, less the value of imports of goods
    and services. GDP is also equal to the sum of primary incomes
    distributed by resident producer units.‚Äù

2.b. Unit of measure (UNIT_MEASURE) Percent (%)

2.c. Classifications (CLASS_SYSTEM) The methodology for the calculation
of Tourism Direct GDP is in line with the Tourism Satellite Account:
Recommended Methodological Framework (TSA:RMF 2008) and the
International Recommendations for Tourism Statistics 2008 (IRTS 2008)
which defines the tourism characteristic industries (i.e. tourism
industries) and provides a list of tourism industries for international
comparability purposes based on the International Standard Industrial
Classification of All Economic Activities (ISIC Rev. 4)

3.  Data source type and data collection method (SRC_TYPE_COLL_METHOD)

3.a. Data sources (SOURCE_TYPE) The indicator is sourced from countries‚Äô
Tourism Satellite Account (TSA), which is a satellite account to the
National Accounts.

3.b. Data collection method (COLL_METHOD) UN Tourism sends a pre-filled
excel questionnaire (including data from official publications and
official websites) to countries to collect the latest data on TDGDP. To
lighten the reporting burden on countries, UN Tourism cooperates with
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) which
provides to UN Tourism the data collected from its member and partner
countries1. UN Tourism then integrates the data received from OECD with
the data it collects directly from non-OECD countries. This exercise is
being carried out on a yearly basis since 2019. 1 OECD list of member
countries is available at:
<https://www.oecd.org/about/members-and-partners/> Last updated:
2023-12-15

3.c. Data collection calendar (FREQ_COLL) The questionnaire is sent out
to countries in September and data collection is closed in February of
the following year.

3.d. Data release calendar (REL_CAL_POLICY) The data is released twice a
year in the UN Tourism‚Äôs Tourism Statistics Database, the first update
is done in November and the second in January

3.e. Data providers (DATA_SOURCE) Only official country entities,
usually National Statistics Offices and/or National Tourism
Administrations.

3.f. Data compilers (COMPILING_ORG) World Tourism Organization (UN
Tourism)

3.g. Institutional mandate (INST_MANDATE) As per the article 13 of the
agreement between the United Nations and the World Tourism Organization:
‚Äúthe United Nations recognizes the World Tourism Organization as the
appropriate organization to collect, to analyse, to publish, to
standardize and to improve the statistics of tourism, and to promote the
integration of these statistics within the sphere of the United Nations
system.‚Äù The World Tourism Organization is the custodian agency for SDG
indicator 8.9.1.

4.  Other methodological considerations (OTHER_METHOD) 4.a. Rationale
    (RATIONALE) Target 8.9 has several dimensions and indicator 8.9.1
    caters to the core intention of the target which calls to ‚Äúpromote
    sustainable tourism‚Äù. While sustainable tourism is multidimensional
    in itself (with economic, social and environmental aspects), the
    economic contribution of tourism captured by this indicator, and
    (relative) increases or decreases in it, indicates the degree to
    which tourism is being successfully promoted. Ideally, this
    indicator needs to be complemented with additional indicators on the
    social (e.g. employment, etc.) and environmental (energy use, GHG
    emissions, etc.) aspects of tourism that can be disaggregated to
    provide a more complete picture of the promotion of sustainable
    tourism and thus the monitoring of this target. This indicator is
    useful for policy on tourism at international, national level and
    the level of sub-national regions as it provides a measure of the
    economic contribution of tourism which can be compared over time,
    across countries, to total GDP and to the GDP contributions of other
    economic activities. Tourism Direct GDP includes the contributions
    from all forms of tourism‚Äîinbound tourism, domestic tourism and
    outbound tourism‚Äîin line with the International Recommendations for
    Tourism Statistics 2008 (IRTS 2008). The indicator has been found
    especially useful in raising awareness of the economic importance of
    tourism and making the case for a more proactive, sustainable
    management of a sector that is often overlooked in policy agendas at
    all levels. Last updated: 2023-12-15

4.b. Comment and limitations (REC_USE_LIM) Given that a significant
number of countries already have or are working to implement Tourism
Satellite Accounts (TSA), data on the suggested indicators could become
available in more countries in the near future. The data demands for
implementing TSA (detailed input-output or supply and use tables, among
others); means that it is often not possible or cost effective to
realize frequent updating of the TSA. Therefore, some countries produce
estimates of TSA aggregates, in between reference years and/or nowcast
estimates, to have more current data and to produce a time series. In
the absence of important shocks to the economy and to tourism,
historically TDGDP/GDP tended to not show very large variations from one
year to the next, however the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on
tourism are quite evident through this indicator in many countries.
Considering also that variations may stem from the numerator and/or
denominator, it is often useful from an analytical perspective to
consider the indicator in different forms and adaptations: absolute
value, % change in constant price, and TDGDP per visitor or per employed
person. Related economic aggregates on tourism like Tourism Direct Gross
Value Added and the Gross Value Added of the Tourism Industries (in
aggregate form and disaggregated by tourism industry) are also important
and may be used as approximations to indicator 8.9.1 for analytical
purposes.

4.c. Method of computation (DATA_COMP) Tourism direct GDP as a
proportion of total GDP (in%): ÙÄµ¨ ùëáùê∑ùê∫ùê∑ùëÉ ùê∫ùê∑ùëÉ ÙÄµ∞ √ó 100 Tourism direct GDP in
growth rate ÙÄµ§ÙÄµ¨ ùëáùê∑ùê∫ùê∑ùëÉÙÄØß ùëáùê∑ùê∫ùê∑ùëÉÙÄØßÙÄ¨øÙÄ¨µ ÙÄµ∞ ‚àí 1ÙÄµ® √ó 100 4.d. Validation
(DATA_VALIDATION) Every year historical data is requested. If there are
differences in the newly reported data for the country with respect to
the data available previously, countries are consulted. Similarly, if
other inconsistencies are found, there is ongoing follow up with
countries. UN Tourism is also custodian for indicator 12.b.1 and the
data collected there serves as a valuable validation step for the data
provided for indicator 8.9.1. For example, since Table 6 of TSA is
necessary for the compilation of TDGDP, the data reported by countries
are cross validated with the availability of this table ( data reported
for SDG indicator 12.b.1). 4.e. Adjustments (ADJUSTMENT) Not applicable
Last updated: 2023-12-15 4.f. Treatment of missing values (i) at country
level and (ii) at regional level (IMPUTATION) ÔÇ∑ At country level When a
country does not measure the Tourism direct GDP but measures the Tourism
Direct Gross Value Added (TDGVA), the indicator Tourism Direct Gross
Value Added as a proportion of total Gross Value Added (in %) is used as
a proxy. When it is the case, a footnote is included in the data.
Tourism Direct Gross Value added (TDGVA) as a proportion of total Gross
Value Added (GVA), in %: $(TDGVA/GVA)*100$

4.g. Regional aggregations (REG_AGG) Aggregates are computed for the SDG
regions and at the global level. For every year, estimates for countries
with missing data are computed as follows: - For countries without any
reported data A multivariate linear regression model is used with as
explanatory variables the number of hotel rooms in the country and
inbound tourism expenditure (computed from Balance of Payments data
provided by the International Monetary Fund (IMF)), both available via
UN Tourism¬¥s statistical database. - For countries with reported data
for years other than the year of reference A simple linear model based
on inbound tourism expenditure (computed from the IMF Balance of
Payments data) as explanatory variable is used to estimate the nominal
percentage change in TDGDP. These values are used to retro- and
extrapolate the values reported by the country, using these as
benchmark. For reference years between years with reported data, a
linear trend between reported years is used. - Special cases Some data
reported by countries that do not correspond to Tourism Direct GDP or
GVA and are therefore not published, may still be used in the
calculation of aggregates. For each year, countries without reported
data for which the methodology yields negative estimates or for which no
data to feed the linear models are available are discarded. Regional
(and global) aggregates are then obtained by computing weighted averages
of TDGDP, using total GDP as the weight, for countries within the region
of interest for which data or estimates are available. GDP coverage for
each aggregate is obtained by calculating the percentage of total
regional GDP that is represented by countries for which data is reported
or for which an estimate is available. If this coverage is relatively
low (below 60 percent), estimates are published with a cautionary
footnote.

4.h. Methods and guidance available to countries for the compilation of
the data at the national level (DOC_METHOD) The methodology is described
in the Tourism Satellite Account: Recommended Methodological Framework
2008. Last updated: 2023-12-15 For the purposes of SDG reporting, UN
Tourism suggests an experimental approach that might be used by
countries with limited data to compile estimates of TDGDP using the
conceptual framing of the TSA and the most commonly available data but
not requiring the full compilation of TSA. In this regard, the approach
is intended to provide a starting point for countries with limited data
that can then move towards the compilation of TSA and the more complete
measurement of TDGDP. For more information, see Proposals for estimating
Tourism Direct GDP with limited data.

4.i. Quality management (QUALITY_MGMNT) Recommendations on quality
management for the underlying tourism data needed to compile a TSA are
available in the International Recommendations for Tourism Statistics
2008 (IRTS 2008), the UN ratified methodological framework for measuring
tourism.

4.j Quality assurance (QUALITY_ASSURE) Any discrepancies are resolved
through written communication with countries.

4.k Quality assessment (QUALITY_ASSMNT) The data should comply with the
recommendations on concepts, definitions and classifications provided in
the international standards: the Tourism Satellite Account: Recommended
Methodological Framework 2008.

5.  Data availability and disaggregation (COVERAGE) Data availability:
    As of March 2024, more than 70 countries have data available for
    this indicator in 2020. The number of countries with a TSA exercise
    is monitored by SDG indicator 12.b.1. According to data reported by
    countries for the SDG indicator 12.b.1, 99 countries have conducted
    a TSA exercise in the period between 2017 and

6.  Time series: Annual data from 2008 onwards are available.
    Disaggregation: TDGDP is derived from the productive activities that
    cater directly to tourism and so it could be possible to
    disaggregate by tourism industries (e.g. accommodation for visitors,
    the different kinds of passenger transportation, etc.). Sub-national
    disaggregation/estimates of Tourism Direct GDP are possible and
    there are a number of countries‚Äô subnational regions that have
    information on this. However, there is no consensus on a methodology
    for doing this in a standardized way, compromising international
    comparability. In any case, it seems that collection of data would
    be warranted only for those regions where tourism is considered a
    significant (economic) activity and/or a policy priority.

7.  Comparability / deviation from international standards
    (COMPARABILITY) Sources of discrepancies: Last updated: 2023-12-15
    Discrepancies might arise from different degrees of adherence to
    Tourism Satellite Account: Recommended Methodological Framework 2008
    and different TSA reference years.

8.  References and Documentation (OTHER_DOC) International
    Recommendations for Tourism Statistics 2008 (IRTS 2008) Tourism
    Satellite Account: Recommended Methodological Framework 2008 (TSA:
    RMF 2008)SDG indicator metadata (Harmonized metadata template -
    format version 1.1)

9.  Indicator information (SDG_INDICATOR_INFO)

0.a. Goal (SDG_GOAL) Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and
sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent
work for all

0.b. Target (SDG_TARGET) Target 8.9: By 2030, devise and implement
policies to promote sustainable tourism that creates jobs and promotes
local culture and products

0.c. Indicator (SDG_INDICATOR) Indicator 8.9.1: Tourism direct GDP as a
proportion of total GDP and in growth rate 0.d. Series
(SDG_SERIES_DESCR) ST_GDP_ZS - Tourism direct GDP as a proportion of
total GDP [8.9.1]

0.e. Metadata update (META_LAST_UPDATE) 2023-12-15

0.f. Related indicators (SDG_RELATED_INDICATORS) Target 14.7: By 2030,
increase the economic benefits to small island developing States and
least developed countries from the sustainable use of marine resources,
including through sustainable management of fisheries, aquaculture and
tourism. Target 12.b: Develop and implement tools to monitor sustainable
development impacts for sustainable tourism that creates jobs and
promotes local culture and products Indicator 12.b.1 Implementation of
standard accounting tools to monitor the economic and environmental
aspects of tourism sustainability 0.g. International organisations(s)
responsible for global monitoring (SDG_CUSTODIAN_AGENCIES) World Tourism
Organization (UN Tourism)

1.  Data reporter (CONTACT) 1.a. Organisation (CONTACT_ORGANISATION)
    World Tourism Organization (UN Tourism)

2.  Definition, concepts, and classifications (IND_DEF_CON_CLASS) 2.a.
    Definition and concepts (STAT_CONC_DEF) Definition: Tourism Direct
    GDP (TDGDP) is defined as the sum of the part of gross value added
    (at basic prices) generated by all industries in response to
    internal tourism consumption plus the amount of net taxes on
    products and imports included within the value of this expenditure
    at purchasers‚Äô prices. The indicator relies on the Tourism Satellite
    Account: Recommended Methodological Framework 2008, an international
    Last updated: 2023-12-15 standard adopted by the UN Statistical
    Commission and led by UN Tourism, Organisation for Economic
    Cooperation and Development (OECD) and EUROSTAT. Concepts: Tourism
    direct gross value added (TDGVA) is the part of gross value added
    generated by tourism industries and other industries of the economy
    that directly serve visitors in response to internal tourism
    consumption. Gross Domestic Product (GDP): It is the main measure of
    national output, representing the total value of all final goods and
    services within the System of National Accounts (SNA) production
    boundary produced in a particular economy (that is, the dollar value
    of all goods and services within the SNA production boundary
    produced within a country‚Äôs borders in a given year). According to
    the SNA, ‚ÄúGDP is the sum of gross value added of all resident
    producer units plus that part (possibly the total) of taxes on
    products, less subsidies on products, that is not included in the
    valuation of output. GDP is also equal to the sum of the final uses
    of goods and services (all uses except intermediate consumption)
    measured at purchasers‚Äô prices, less the value of imports of goods
    and services. GDP is also equal to the sum of primary incomes
    distributed by resident producer units.‚Äù

2.b. Unit of measure (UNIT_MEASURE) Percent (%)

2.c. Classifications (CLASS_SYSTEM) The methodology for the calculation
of Tourism Direct GDP is in line with the Tourism Satellite Account:
Recommended Methodological Framework (TSA:RMF 2008) and the
International Recommendations for Tourism Statistics 2008 (IRTS 2008)
which defines the tourism characteristic industries (i.e. tourism
industries) and provides a list of tourism industries for international
comparability purposes based on the International Standard Industrial
Classification of All Economic Activities (ISIC Rev. 4)

3.  Data source type and data collection method (SRC_TYPE_COLL_METHOD)

3.a. Data sources (SOURCE_TYPE) The indicator is sourced from countries‚Äô
Tourism Satellite Account (TSA), which is a satellite account to the
National Accounts.

3.b. Data collection method (COLL_METHOD) UN Tourism sends a pre-filled
excel questionnaire (including data from official publications and
official websites) to countries to collect the latest data on TDGDP. To
lighten the reporting burden on countries, UN Tourism cooperates with
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) which
provides to UN Tourism the data collected from its member and partner
countries1. UN Tourism then integrates the data received from OECD with
the data it collects directly from non-OECD countries. This exercise is
being carried out on a yearly basis since 2019. 1 OECD list of member
countries is available at:
<https://www.oecd.org/about/members-and-partners/> Last updated:
2023-12-15

3.c. Data collection calendar (FREQ_COLL) The questionnaire is sent out
to countries in September and data collection is closed in February of
the following year.

3.d. Data release calendar (REL_CAL_POLICY) The data is released twice a
year in the UN Tourism‚Äôs Tourism Statistics Database, the first update
is done in November and the second in January

3.e. Data providers (DATA_SOURCE) Only official country entities,
usually National Statistics Offices and/or National Tourism
Administrations.

3.f. Data compilers (COMPILING_ORG) World Tourism Organization (UN
Tourism)

3.g. Institutional mandate (INST_MANDATE) As per the article 13 of the
agreement between the United Nations and the World Tourism Organization:
‚Äúthe United Nations recognizes the World Tourism Organization as the
appropriate organization to collect, to analyse, to publish, to
standardize and to improve the statistics of tourism, and to promote the
integration of these statistics within the sphere of the United Nations
system.‚Äù The World Tourism Organization is the custodian agency for SDG
indicator 8.9.1.

4.  Other methodological considerations (OTHER_METHOD) 4.a. Rationale
    (RATIONALE) Target 8.9 has several dimensions and indicator 8.9.1
    caters to the core intention of the target which calls to ‚Äúpromote
    sustainable tourism‚Äù. While sustainable tourism is multidimensional
    in itself (with economic, social and environmental aspects), the
    economic contribution of tourism captured by this indicator, and
    (relative) increases or decreases in it, indicates the degree to
    which tourism is being successfully promoted. Ideally, this
    indicator needs to be complemented with additional indicators on the
    social (e.g. employment, etc.) and environmental (energy use, GHG
    emissions, etc.) aspects of tourism that can be disaggregated to
    provide a more complete picture of the promotion of sustainable
    tourism and thus the monitoring of this target. This indicator is
    useful for policy on tourism at international, national level and
    the level of sub-national regions as it provides a measure of the
    economic contribution of tourism which can be compared over time,
    across countries, to total GDP and to the GDP contributions of other
    economic activities. Tourism Direct GDP includes the contributions
    from all forms of tourism‚Äîinbound tourism, domestic tourism and
    outbound tourism‚Äîin line with the International Recommendations for
    Tourism Statistics 2008 (IRTS 2008). The indicator has been found
    especially useful in raising awareness of the economic importance of
    tourism and making the case for a more proactive, sustainable
    management of a sector that is often overlooked in policy agendas at
    all levels. Last updated: 2023-12-15

4.b. Comment and limitations (REC_USE_LIM) Given that a significant
number of countries already have or are working to implement Tourism
Satellite Accounts (TSA), data on the suggested indicators could become
available in more countries in the near future. The data demands for
implementing TSA (detailed input-output or supply and use tables, among
others); means that it is often not possible or cost effective to
realize frequent updating of the TSA. Therefore, some countries produce
estimates of TSA aggregates, in between reference years and/or nowcast
estimates, to have more current data and to produce a time series. In
the absence of important shocks to the economy and to tourism,
historically TDGDP/GDP tended to not show very large variations from one
year to the next, however the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on
tourism are quite evident through this indicator in many countries.
Considering also that variations may stem from the numerator and/or
denominator, it is often useful from an analytical perspective to
consider the indicator in different forms and adaptations: absolute
value, % change in constant price, and TDGDP per visitor or per employed
person. Related economic aggregates on tourism like Tourism Direct Gross
Value Added and the Gross Value Added of the Tourism Industries (in
aggregate form and disaggregated by tourism industry) are also important
and may be used as approximations to indicator 8.9.1 for analytical
purposes. 4.c. Method of computation (DATA_COMP) Tourism direct GDP as a
proportion of total GDP (in%): $(TDGVA/GVA)*100$

Tourism direct GDP in growth rate $[(TDGDP_t / TDGDP_(t-1)] *100$

4.d. Validation (DATA_VALIDATION) Every year historical data is
requested. If there are differences in the newly reported data for the
country with respect to the data available previously, countries are
consulted. Similarly, if other inconsistencies are found, there is
ongoing follow up with countries. UN Tourism is also custodian for
indicator 12.b.1 and the data collected there serves as a valuable
validation step for the data provided for indicator 8.9.1. For example,
since Table 6 of TSA is necessary for the compilation of TDGDP, the data
reported by countries are cross validated with the availability of this
table ( data reported for SDG indicator 12.b.1).

4.e. Adjustments (ADJUSTMENT) Not applicable Last updated: 2023-12-15

4.f. Treatment of missing values (i) at country level and (ii) at
regional level (IMPUTATION) ÔÇ∑ At country level When a country does not
measure the Tourism direct GDP but measures the Tourism Direct Gross
Value Added (TDGVA), the indicator Tourism Direct Gross Value Added as a
proportion of total Gross Value Added (in %) is used as a proxy. When it
is the case, a footnote is included in the data. Tourism Direct Gross
Value added (TDGVA) as a proportion of total Gross Value Added (GVA), in
%:

$(TDGVA/GVA)*100$

4.g. Regional aggregations (REG_AGG) Aggregates are computed for the SDG
regions and at the global level. For every year, estimates for countries
with missing data are computed as follows:

-   For countries without any reported data A multivariate linear
    regression model is used with as explanatory variables the number of
    hotel rooms in the country and inbound tourism expenditure (computed
    from Balance of Payments data provided by the International Monetary
    Fund (IMF)), both available via UN Tourism¬¥s statistical database.

-   For countries with reported data for years other than the year of
    reference A simple linear model based on inbound tourism expenditure
    (computed from the IMF Balance of Payments data) as explanatory
    variable is used to estimate the nominal percentage change in TDGDP.
    These values are used to retro- and extrapolate the values reported
    by the country, using these as benchmark. For reference years
    between years with reported data, a linear trend between reported
    years is used.

-   Special cases Some data reported by countries that do not correspond
    to Tourism Direct GDP or GVA and are therefore not published, may
    still be used in the calculation of aggregates. For each year,
    countries without reported data for which the methodology yields
    negative estimates or for which no data to feed the linear models
    are available are discarded. Regional (and global) aggregates are
    then obtained by computing weighted averages of TDGDP, using total
    GDP as the weight, for countries within the region of interest for
    which data or estimates are available. GDP coverage for each
    aggregate is obtained by calculating the percentage of total
    regional GDP that is represented by countries for which data is
    reported or for which an estimate is available. If this coverage is
    relatively low (below 60 percent), estimates are published with a
    cautionary footnote.

4.h. Methods and guidance available to countries for the compilation of
the data at the national level (DOC_METHOD) The methodology is described
in the Tourism Satellite Account: Recommended Methodological Framework
2008. Last updated: 2023-12-15 For the purposes of SDG reporting, UN
Tourism suggests an experimental approach that might be used by
countries with limited data to compile estimates of TDGDP using the
conceptual framing of the TSA and the most commonly available data but
not requiring the full compilation of TSA. In this regard, the approach
is intended to provide a starting point for countries with limited data
that can then move towards the compilation of TSA and the more complete
measurement of TDGDP. For more information, see Proposals for estimating
Tourism Direct GDP with limited data.

4.i. Quality management (QUALITY_MGMNT) Recommendations on quality
management for the underlying tourism data needed to compile a TSA are
available in the International Recommendations for Tourism Statistics
2008 (IRTS 2008), the UN ratified methodological framework for measuring
tourism.

4.j Quality assurance (QUALITY_ASSURE) Any discrepancies are resolved
through written communication with countries.

4.k Quality assessment (QUALITY_ASSMNT) The data should comply with the
recommendations on concepts, definitions and classifications provided in
the international standards: the Tourism Satellite Account: Recommended
Methodological Framework 2008.

5.  Data availability and disaggregation (COVERAGE) Data availability:
    As of March 2024, more than 70 countries have data available for
    this indicator in 2020. The number of countries with a TSA exercise
    is monitored by SDG indicator 12.b.1. According to data reported by
    countries for the SDG indicator 12.b.1, 99 countries have conducted
    a TSA exercise in the period between 2017 and

6.  Time series: Annual data from 2008 onwards are available.
    Disaggregation: TDGDP is derived from the productive activities that
    cater directly to tourism and so it could be possible to
    disaggregate by tourism industries (e.g. accommodation for visitors,
    the different kinds of passenger transportation, etc.). Sub-national
    disaggregation/estimates of Tourism Direct GDP are possible and
    there are a number of countries‚Äô subnational regions that have
    information on this. However, there is no consensus on a methodology
    for doing this in a standardized way, compromising international
    comparability. In any case, it seems that collection of data would
    be warranted only for those regions where tourism is considered a
    significant (economic) activity and/or a policy priority.

7.  Comparability / deviation from international standards
    (COMPARABILITY) Sources of discrepancies: Last updated: 2023-12-15
    Discrepancies might arise from different degrees of adherence to
    Tourism Satellite Account: Recommended Methodological Framework 2008
    and different TSA reference years.

8.  References and Documentation (OTHER_DOC) International
    Recommendations for Tourism Statistics 2008 (IRTS 2008) Tourism
    Satellite Account: Recommended Methodological Framework 2008 (TSA:
    RMF 2008)
